chore: Define backport criteria (#22766)
apache/datafusion: docs/source/contributor-guide/release_management.md

  current release line, hangs, deadlocks, memory leaks, or other availability
  issues.
- **Build, CI, and test fixes** required to keep the branch buildable and
  releasable.
- **Documentation fixes** that correct documentation about behavior already
  in the release. Documentation for behavior that exists only on `main` does
  not belong on a release branch.

### Not recommended for backport

- **New features**, including new SQL functions, new optimizer rules, new
  configuration options, new public APIs, and new file-format support. Land
  on `main` and ship in the next major release.
- **Breaking API changes** of any kind, Rust or SQL. DataFusion makes
  breaking changes only at major version boundaries — see [API health policy].
- **Refactors and cleanup** that do not fix a bug, even if they are correct.
- **Performance improvements** that are not also correctness or stability
  fixes. Land on `main`.
- **Dependency upgrades**, except when the upgrade itself is the security or
  correctness fix and there is no narrower alternative.

### Behavior changes

A "behavior change" is any fix that alters user-visible results: SQL

> semantics (values, ordering, types, null handling), error messages that

Reviewer: I think we have made error message changes in minor releases before and it seems like that would be ok to me, to be honest. 

The rest of this sounds good

downstream users may rely on, plan output, or default configuration values.

Behavior-changing fixes need extra scrutiny on a release branch because
users upgrading between patch versions do not expect their queries to start
returning different results. Before opening the backport PR:

1. State on the release tracking issue _why_ the change must ship in this
   patch release rather than the next major.
2. Describe the previous and new behavior with example queries and results.
3. Wait for explicit acknowledgment from the release manager or another

>    committer on the tracking issue.

Reviewer: I am not sure we need to gate the creation of a backport PR on acknowledgement from the release manager -- making the backport PR is pretty simple, and I would expect that 2. (describing previous behavior, etc) would have already been done on the main issue

Explaining why you want the change in the patch release is a good idea though.

If in doubt, default to "land on `main`, ship in the next major."

### Who decides

> The release manager for the active release line is the final reviewer of

Reviewer: I think practically any committer can commit to a release branch too -- so maybe we can make ti clear that others can merge PRs to the release branch, though the release manager will review them

what goes into the patch release. They coordinate via the release tracking
issue (for example, the [release issue for 50.3.0]). Anyone may propose a
backport by opening a backport PR and linking it from the tracking issue;
inclusion is the release manager's call.

### Active release branches

DataFusion does not maintain Long-Term Support branches. In general only the
most recent `branch-NN` is actively maintained for backports. A branch is

> considered closed once the next major release branch has been cut and the
> release manager closes its tracking issue; users who need a fix beyond that
> point should upgrade to the next major.
> 
> Security fixes are an exception: a maintainer may choose to backport a
> critical security fix to an older branch even after it would otherwise be
> closed. Discuss on the dev list or in a tracking issue before doing so.

Reviewer: This is true, but I also don't think I have heard opposition to doing more releases -- it is more of a bandwidth thing. Maybe we can soften the language a little like this:

```suggestion
DataFusion does not maintain Long-Term Support branches. In general only the
most recent `branch-NN` is actively maintained for backports, but if you need fixes in 
older releases, we are open to discussion.

Security fixes are an exception: a maintainer may choose to backport a
critical security fix to an older branch even after it would otherwise be
closed. Discuss on the dev list or in a tracking issue before doing so.
```
